# Jakarta Debugging Support for Other Languages TCK
 
The TCK provides the `VerifySMAP` utility which is used to validate the SMAP
generated by the product being tested.

The TCK does not provide the input files (`.smap` or `.class`) which need to be
generated by the product being tested.

## Build Instructions

Tools Required:

- JDK 8+
- Apache Ant 1.10.1+


Steps for building TCK bundle:

1. Set the environment variables:

        export JAVA_HOME=<JAVA_INSTALL_DIR>
        export ANT_HOME=<ANT_INSTALL_DIR>
        export PATH=$JAVA_HOME/bin:$ANT_HOME/bin:$PATH

2. Run the ant command

        ant clean dist
   
3. The generated bundle `dsol-tck-<version>.zip` can be found under the `dist`
   directory.
  
## Running the TCK against Glassfish 6.0+

Tools Required:

- JDK 8+
- Apache Ant 1.10.1+
- Glassfish 6.0+
  
Steps for Testing GlassFish:

1. Set the following init parameters for JSP page compiler and execution servlet
   in `domains/domain1/config/default-web.xml`.
      
        <servlet>
          <servlet-name>jsp</servlet-name>
          <servlet-class>
             org.apache.jasper.servlet.JspServlet
          </servlet-class>
          ...
          <init-param>
            <param-name>keepgenerated</param-name>
            <param-value>true</param-value>
          </init-param>
          <init-param>
            <param-name>dumpSmap</param-name>
            <param-value>true</param-value>
          </init-param>
          ...
        </servlet>
 
2. Start GlassFish server.

3. Create a sample web module by packaging a sample JSP and deploy the web
   module.

4. Accessing the JSP to get the generated .smap file under the directory
   `domains/domain1/generated/jsp/<web app name>/org/apache/jsp`.

5. Run the smap verifier supplied with TCK

        java VerifySMAP domains/domain1/generated/jsp/<web app name>/org/apache/jsp/Hello_jsp.class.smap

   Assertion : The output of the java program should report that the `.smap`
   file is correctly formatted one. Something like below:
    
        <GlassFish Home>/domains/domain1/generated/jsp/testclient/org/apache/jsp/Hello_jsp.class.smap
        is a correctly formatted SMAP

Steps for Negative Testing :

1. Edit the generated `.smap` file such that the syntax becomes invalid as per
   the specification.
   
2. Run `VerifySMAP` with the invalid `.smap` file.
 
   Assertion : The output of the java program should report that the `.smap`
   file is incorrectly formatted one. Something like below:

        Assertion #1 failed - SMAP syntax error
        <GlassFish Home>/domains/domain1/generated/jsp/testclient/org/apache/jsp/Hello_jsp.class.smap:14: unexpected end of SMAP
        Exception in thread "main" VerifySMAP$AssertionViolationException: assertion #1 failed - SMAP syntax error
